# Student Grades Average Calculation

This project calculates the average grades of students from a CSV file containing their individual subject marks. The project includes two Python scripts: one using the `pandas` library and another using the `csv` module.

## Files

- `student_grades.csv`: Contains the grades of students in various subjects.
- `student_average_grades_with_pandas.csv`: Output file generated by `studentMarksAverageWithPandas.py` containing the average marks calculated using `pandas`.
- `student_average_grades.csv`: Output file generated by `studentMarksAverage.py` containing the average marks calculated using the `csv` module.
- `studentMarksAverageWithPandas.py`: Python script that calculates the average marks using the `pandas` library.
- `studentMarksAverage.py`: Python script that calculates the average marks using the `csv` module.

## CSV File Formats

### student_grades.csv

```plaintext
Roll No,Student Name,Math,Science,English,History,Geography
1,John Smith,85,90,78,92,88
2,Emily Johnson,92,88,95,89,91
...
```

### student_average_grades.csv
```plaintext
Name,Average
Emily Johnson,91.0
Michael Brown,77.6
...
```

### student_average_grades_with_pandas.csv

```plaintext
Roll No,Student Name,Average Marks
1,John Smith,86.6
2,Emily Johnson,91.0
3,Michael Brown,77.6
...
```

## Usage

Using `studentMarksAverage.py`

1. Run the Script:
```bash
python studentMarksAverage.py
```

2. The output will be saved to `student_average_grades.csv`.

Using `studentMarksAverageWithPandas.py`

1. Ensure you have `pandas` installed:
```bash
pip install pandas
```

2. Run the Script:
```bash
python studentMarksAverageWithPandas.py
```

3. The output will be save to `student_average_grades_with_pandas.csv`.

## Functions

`studentMarksAverage.py`

- `calculate_average(grades)`: Calculates the average of a list of grades.
- `validate_grades(grades)`: Validates that all grades are within the valid range (0-100).
- `main()`: Reads the student grades from student_grades.csv, validates them, calculates the average, and writes the results to student_average_grades.csv.

`studentMarksAverageWithPandas.py`

- ***Calculate the average of the student marks***: Uses `pandas` to read the CSV file and calculate the average marks for each student.

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License.